Add Kafka Migrator cookbook (#36)
redpanda-data/rp-connect-docs: modules/cookbooks/pages/kafka_migrator.adoc

> = Kafka Migrator

Author: Sounds good! I guess I need to send a PR here https://github.com/redpanda-data/cloud-docs, but I'm sure where it should be placed within that folder structure.

// tag::single-source[]

Author: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mtodor[Mihai Todor^]

> :description: Kafka Migrator is a tool for simplifying migrations from any Kafka system to Redpanda. Its purpose is to allow users to migrate Kafka messages, schemas and ACLs in a manner that is both user-friendly and efficient, while also offering a high degree of customizability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: The Kafka migrator simplifies data migrations from any Kafka system to Redpanda. Its lets you  migrate Kafka messages, schemas, and ACLs quickly and efficiently.
```

> The Redpanda Connect components which enable this functionality are the xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` input], xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` output], xref:components:inputs/kafka_franz.adoc[`kafka_franz` input], xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_offsets.adoc[`kafka_migrator_offsets` output], xref:components:inputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` input] and xref:components:outputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` output]. For convenience, these are bundled together in the xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` input] and xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` output] templates which we will be demoing in this cookbook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda Connect's Kafka migrator uses functionality from the following components: 

* xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` input], 
* xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` output]
* xref:components:inputs/kafka_franz.adoc[`kafka_franz` input] 
* xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_offsets.adoc[`kafka_migrator_offsets` output]
* xref:components:inputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` input] 
* xref:components:outputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` output]. 

For convenience, these components are bundled together into the 
* xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` input] and 
* xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` output] templates.

This cookbook shows how to use the bundled components.
```

== Setup

> First, we will need two clusters and, for simplicity, we can run two Redpanda Docker containers via https://docs.docker.com/compose[Docker Compose^]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create two Redpanda clusters using Docker containers via https://docs.docker.com/compose[Docker Compose^]:
```

[source,yaml]
----
# docker-compose.yml

services:
  source:
    image: redpandadata/redpanda
    command:
      - redpanda
      - start
      - --node-id 0
      - --mode dev-container
      - --set rpk.additional_start_flags=[--reactor-backend=epoll]
      - --set redpanda.auto_create_topics_enabled=false
      - --kafka-addr 0.0.0.0:9092
      - --advertise-kafka-addr localhost:9092
      - --schema-registry-addr 0.0.0.0:8081
    ports:
      - 8081:8081
      - 9092:9092
      - 9644:9644

  sink:
    image: redpandadata/redpanda
    command:
      - redpanda
      - start
      - --node-id 0
      - --mode dev-container
      - --set rpk.additional_start_flags=[--reactor-backend=epoll]
      - --set redpanda.auto_create_topics_enabled=false
      - --kafka-addr 0.0.0.0:9093
      - --advertise-kafka-addr localhost:9093
      - --schema-registry-addr 0.0.0.0:8081
    ports:
      - 8082:8081
      - 9093:9093
      - 9645:9644
----

[source,console]
----
$ docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up --force-recreate -V
----

> Once these are up and running, we can use the Redpanda https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk[`rpk` CLI tool^] to interact with them and create two topics and a schema for each of them in the `source` cluster. Also, we create a role and, for each topic, we add an ACL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the clusters are up and running, execute the following https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk[`rpk`] commands to interact with them and create two topics and a schema for each of them in the `source` cluster. These commands also create a security role and an ACL for each topic.
```

Author: OK, I moved the `rpk` section further down and mentioned that it needs to be installed.

[source,console]
----
$ rpk -X brokers=localhost:9092 -X admin.hosts=localhost:9644 topic create foo -p 2
$ rpk -X brokers=localhost:9092 -X admin.hosts=localhost:9644 topic create bar -p 2
$ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.schemaregistry.v1+json" --data '{"schema": "{\"name\": \"Foo\", \"type\": \"record\", \"fields\": [{\"name\": \"data\", \"type\": \"int\"}]}"}' http://localhost:8081/subjects/foo/versions
$ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.schemaregistry.v1+json" --data '{"schema": "{\"name\": \"Bar\", \"type\": \"record\", \"fields\": [{\"name\": \"data\", \"type\": \"int\"}]}"}' http://localhost:8081/subjects/bar/versions
$ rpk -X brokers=localhost:9092 -X admin.hosts=localhost:9644 security role create foobar
$ rpk -X brokers=localhost:9092 -X admin.hosts=localhost:9644 security acl create --operation read --topic foo --allow-role foobar
$ rpk -X brokers=localhost:9092 -X admin.hosts=localhost:9644 security acl create --operation read --topic bar --deny-role foobar
----

> Now let's use Connect to generate some AVRO-encoded messages and push them to the two topics we just created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's use Redpanda Connect to generate some Avro-encoded messages and push them to the two topics we just created.
```

Author: I copied the wording from the blog post, which I hope is clear enough:

> Use Redpanda Connect to generate some Avro-encoded messages and push them to the two topics you just created.

There's a paragraph under the config which says:

> You can start this pipeline and leave it running.

Hopefully, it's clear they need to have redpanda-connect installed locally for this given that it's a cookbook in the Redpanda Connect docs.

[source,yaml]
----
# generate_data.yaml

http:
  enabled: false

input:
  sequence:
    inputs:
      - generate:
          mapping: |
            let msg = counter()
            root.data = $msg

            meta kafka_topic = match $msg % 2 {
              0 => "foo"
              1 => "bar"
            }
          interval: 1s
          count: 0
          batch_size: 1

        processors:
          - schema_registry_encode:
              url: "http://localhost:8081"
              subject: ${! metadata("kafka_topic") }
              avro_raw_json: true

output:
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9092" ]
    topic: ${! @kafka_topic }
    partitioner: manual
    partition: ${! random_int(min:0, max:1) }
----

> We can start this pipeline and leave it running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next run this command to start a data pipeline, and leave it running:
```

[source,console]
----
$ redpanda-connect run generate_data.yaml
----

> Now we can also start a Redpanda Connect consumer which reads messages from the `source` cluster topics and also leave it running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, start a Redpanda Connect consumer which reads messages from the `source` cluster topics and also leave it running:
```

[source,yaml]
----
# read_data_source.yaml

http:
  enabled: false

input:
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9092" ]
    topics:
      - '^[^_]' # Skip topics which start with `_`
    regexp_topics: true
    start_from_oldest: true
    consumer_group: foobar

  processors:
    - schema_registry_decode:
        url: "http://localhost:8081"
        avro_raw_json: true

output:
  stdout: {}
  processors:
    - mapping: |
        root = this.merge({"count": counter(), "topic": @kafka_topic, "partition": @kafka_partition})
----

[source,console]
----
$ redpanda-connect run read_data_source.yaml
----

Note: This consumer is using the `foobar` consumer group which will be important later.

At this point, we can also start the new Kafka Migrator Bundle, which will do the following:

> - On startup, it will read all the schemas from the `source` cluster Schema Registry through the REST API and push them to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On startup, it reads all schemas from the `source` cluster Schema Registry through the REST API and push them to
```

the `sink` cluster Schema Registry using the same API. It needs to preserve the schema IDs, so the `sink` cluster must
not have any schemas in it.

> - Once the schemas have been imported, Kafka Migrator will start migrating all the selected topics from the `source`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once the schemas have been imported, the Kafka migrator begins the migration of all the selected topics from the `source`
```

> cluster as well as any associated ACLs. After it finishes creating all the topics and ACLs which do not exist in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster, as well as any associated ACLs. After it finishes creating all the topics and ACLs which do not exist in the
```

> `sink` cluster, it will start migrating messages and consumer group offsets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sink` cluster, it begins the migration of messages and consumer group offsets.
```

> - If any new topics are created while Kafka Migrator is running, it is necessary to write some messages to those

Author: I think we want to leave it as `Kafka Migrator`, since that's the component name.

> - If any new topics are created while Kafka Migrator is running, it is necessary to write some messages to those

Author: This is why I left `Kafka Migrator` instead of `the Kafka Migrator`, but not sure if that's correct.

topics for them to be migrated to the `sink` cluster.

ACL migration adheres to the following principles:

- `ALLOW WRITE` ACLs for topics are not migrated
- `ALLOW ALL` ACLs for topics are downgraded to `ALLOW READ`

> - Only topic ACLs are migrated, group ACLs are not migrated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Group ACLs are not migrated
```

> Warning: Adjusting topic configuration, such as partition count, while Kafka Migrator is running in the `source` or the `sink`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Warning: Adjusting topic configuration, such as partition count, while the Kafka migrator is running in the `source` or the `sink`
```

cluster is not currently supported and can lead to undefined behaviour.

> Please use the following Kafka Migrator Bundle configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following Kafka migrator bundle configuration:
```

[source,yaml]
----
# kafka_migrator_bundle.yaml

input:
  kafka_migrator_bundle:
    kafka_migrator:
      seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9092" ]
      topics:
        - '^[^_]' # Skip internal topics which start with `_`
      regexp_topics: true
      consumer_group: migrator_bundle
      start_from_oldest: true

    schema_registry:
      url: http://localhost:8081
      include_deleted: true
      subject_filter: ""

output:
  kafka_migrator_bundle:
    kafka_migrator:
      seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9093" ]
      max_in_flight: 1

    schema_registry:
      url: http://localhost:8082

metrics:
  prometheus: {}
----

[source,console]
----
$ redpanda-connect run kafka_migrator_bundle.yaml
----

> Now we should be ready to check which topics (including partition counts and replicas) and ACLs have been migrated to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we are ready to check which topics (including partition counts and replicas) and ACLs have been migrated to
```

the `sink` cluster:

[source,console]
----
$ rpk -X brokers=localhost:9093 -X admin.hosts=localhost:9645 topic list
NAME      PARTITIONS  REPLICAS
_schemas  1           1
bar       2           1
foo       2           1
----

[source,console]
----
$ rpk -X brokers=localhost:9093 -X admin.hosts=localhost:9645 security acl list
PRINCIPAL            HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME  RESOURCE-PATTERN-TYPE  OPERATION  PERMISSION  ERROR
RedpandaRole:foobar  *     TOPIC          bar            LITERAL                READ       DENY
RedpandaRole:foobar  *     TOPIC          foo            LITERAL                READ       ALLOW
----

> Note: Roles are specific to Redpanda and, for now, they have to be migrated manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Roles are specific to Redpanda and, for now, you need to migrate them manually.
```

We can also check the Prometheus metrics and, besides the xref:components:metrics/about.adoc#metric-names[standard Connect metrics],

> the `kafka_migrator` input also emits an `input_kafka_migrator_lag` metric for each topic and partition which can be used to monitor its progress:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `kafka_migrator` input also emits an `input_kafka_migrator_lag` metric for monitoring the migration of each topic and partition:
```

[source,console]
----
$ curl http://localhost:4195/metrics
...
# HELP input_kafka_lag Benthos Gauge metric
# TYPE input_kafka_lag gauge
input_kafka_lag{label="",partition="0",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="__consumer_offsets"} 0
input_kafka_lag{label="",partition="0",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="bar"} 1
input_kafka_lag{label="",partition="0",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="foo"} 0
input_kafka_lag{label="",partition="1",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="__consumer_offsets"} 0
input_kafka_lag{label="",partition="1",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="bar"} 0
input_kafka_lag{label="",partition="1",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="foo"} 0
input_kafka_lag{label="",partition="2",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="__consumer_offsets"} 0
...
----

> Finally, we can stop the `read_data_source.yaml` consumer we started previously and, afterwards, start a similar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, stop the `read_data_source.yaml` consumer you started previously and, afterwards, start a similar
```

consumer for the `sink` cluster:

[source,yaml]
----
# read_data_sink.yaml

http:
  enabled: false

input:
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9093" ]
    topics:
      - '^[^_]' # Skip topics which start with `_`
    regexp_topics: true
    start_from_oldest: true
    consumer_group: foobar

  processors:
    - schema_registry_decode:
        url: "http://localhost:8082"
        avro_raw_json: true

output:
  stdout: {}
  processors:
    - mapping: |
        root = this.merge({"count": counter(), "topic": @kafka_topic, "partition": @kafka_partition})
----

[source,console]
----
$ redpanda-connect run read_data_sink.yaml
----

> If you recall earlier, we mentioned that the `source` cluster consumer is using the `foobar` consumer group. We started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the start of this cookbook, you started a `source` cluster consumer using the `foobar` consumer group. You also started
```

> the `sink` cluster consumer using the same consumer group and, as you can observe, it resumes reading messages from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `sink` cluster consumer using the same consumer group. As you can see, it resumes reading messages from the
```

point where the `source` consumer left off.

> Due to the intricacies of distributed systems delivery guarantees, we need to perform offset remapping when migrating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the intricacies of distributed systems delivery guarantees, Redpanda Connect performs offset remapping when migrating
```

> consumer group offsets to the `sink` cluster. While more sophisticated approaches are possible, we chose to use a simple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consumer group offsets to the `sink` cluster. While more sophisticated approaches are possible, Redpanda chose to use a simple
```

> timestamp-based approach, where, for each migrated offset, we first query the `sink` cluster to find the latest offset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
timestamp-based approach, where, for each migrated offset, the `sink` cluster is queried to find the latest offset
```

> prior to the received offset timestamp and use that as the `sink` consumer group offset for the corresponding topic and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prior to the received offset timestamp. Redpanda Connect uses the received offset as the `sink` consumer group offset for the corresponding topic and
```

= Kafka Migrator

// tag::single-source[]

> Author: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mtodor[Mihai Todor^]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This isn't something we add to our docs. We tend to do this for blog posts.

Author: Oops, leftover from the blog post. Thank you!

> :description: With Kafka Migrator, you can move your workloads from any Kafka system to Redpanda using _just one command_. It lets you migrate Kafka messages, schemas, and ACLs quickly and efficiently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:description: With Kafka Migrator, you can move your workloads from any Kafka system to Redpanda using a single command. It lets you migrate Kafka messages, schemas, and ACLs quickly and efficiently.
```

- xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` input],
- xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` output],
- xref:components:inputs/kafka_franz.adoc[`kafka_franz` input],
- xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_offsets.adoc[`kafka_migrator_offsets` output],
- xref:components:inputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` input],
- xref:components:outputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` output].

For convenience, these components are bundled together into the:

- xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` input] and
- xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` output] templates.

This cookbook shows how to use the bundled components.

== Create the Docker containers

First, you’ll need two clusters. To keep it simple, you can run the https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/kafka[Bitnami Kafka^] and https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/schema-registry[Schema Registry^] Docker containers for the source cluster and a https://hub.docker.com/r/redpandadata/redpanda[Redpanda Docker container^] for the destination cluster via https://docs.docker.com/compose[Docker Compose^].

> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> # docker-compose.yml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.`docker-compose.yml`
[source,yaml]
----
```

          kafka-acls.sh --bootstrap-server source:19092 --add --allow-principal User:redpanda --operation Read --topic foo &&
          kafka-acls.sh --bootstrap-server source:19092 --add --deny-principal User:redpanda --operation Read --topic bar
          echo 'Created ACLs:' &&
          kafka-acls.sh --bootstrap-server source:19092 --list"

  source_schema_registry:
    image: bitnami/schema-registry
    environment:
      SCHEMA_REGISTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS: PLAINTEXT://source:19092
    ports:
      - 8081:8081
    depends_on:
      source:
        condition: service_healthy

  destination:
    image: redpandadata/redpanda
    command:
      - redpanda
      - start
      - --node-id 0
      - --mode dev-container
      - --set rpk.additional_start_flags=[--reactor-backend=epoll]
      - --set redpanda.auto_create_topics_enabled=false
      - --kafka-addr 0.0.0.0:9093
      - --advertise-kafka-addr localhost:9093
      - --schema-registry-addr 0.0.0.0:8081
    ports:
      - 8082:8081
      - 9093:9093
      - 9645:9644
----

[source,console]
----
$ docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up --force-recreate -V
----

> NOTE: You used an `init` container above to create 2 topics, `foo` and `bar`, each with 2 partitions and an associated ACL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: This command uses an `init` container to create two topics, `foo` and `bar`, each with two partitions and an associated ACL.
```

== Create schemas

Once the demo clusters are up and running, use https://curl.se[curl^] to create a schema for each topic in the `source` cluster.

[source,console]
----

> $ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.schemaregistry.v1+json" --data '{"schema": "{\"name\": \"Foo\", \"type\": \"record\", \"fields\": [{\"name\": \"data\", \"type\": \"int\"}]}"}' http://localhost:8081/subjects/foo/versions

Reviewer 2: Please exclude `$` from bash commands. They get copied into the user's terminal and cause the examples to break.

$ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.schemaregistry.v1+json" --data '{"schema": "{\"name\": \"Bar\", \"type\": \"record\", \"fields\": [{\"name\": \"data\", \"type\": \"int\"}]}"}' http://localhost:8081/subjects/bar/versions
----

== Generate messages

Let's simulate an application with a producer and consumer actively publishing and reading messages on the `source` cluster. You can use Redpanda Connect to generate some Avro-encoded messages and push them to the two topics from the `source` cluster.

> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> # generate_data.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.`generate_data.yaml`
[source,yaml]
----
```

http:
  enabled: false

input:
  sequence:
    inputs:
      - generate:
          mapping: |
            let msg = counter()
            root.data = $msg

            meta kafka_topic = match $msg % 2 {
              0 => "foo"
              1 => "bar"
            }
          interval: 1s
          count: 0
          batch_size: 1

        processors:
          - schema_registry_encode:
              url: "http://localhost:8081"
              subject: ${! metadata("kafka_topic") }
              avro_raw_json: true

output:
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9092" ]
    topic: ${! @kafka_topic }
    partitioner: manual
    partition: ${! random_int(min:0, max:1) }
----

Now, run this command to start the pipeline, and leave it running:

[source,console]
----
$ redpanda-connect run generate_data.yaml
----

Next, add a Redpanda Connect consumer, which reads messages from the `source` cluster topics, and leave it running. This consumer uses the `foobar` consumer group, which will be reused in a later step when consuming from the `sink` cluster.

> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> # read_data_source.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.`read_data_source.yaml`
[source,yaml]
----
```

- If any new topics are created in the `source` cluster while Kafka Migrator is running, they are only migrated to the `destination` cluster if messages are written to them.

ACL migration for topics adheres to the following principles:

- `ALLOW WRITE` ACLs for topics are not migrated
- `ALLOW ALL` ACLs for topics are downgraded to `ALLOW READ`
- Group ACLs are not migrated

NOTE: Changing topic configurations, such as partition count, isn't currently supported.

Now, use the following Kafka Migrator Bundle configuration. Please refer to the xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[Kafka Migrator Bundle input] and xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[Kafka Migrator Bundle output] docs for details.

NOTE: The `max_in_flight: 1` setting is required to preserve message ordering at the partition level. See the xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator.adoc#max_in_flight[`kafka_migrator` output documentation] for more details.

> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> # kafka_migrator_bundle.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.`kafka_migrator_bundle.yaml`
[source,yaml]
----
```

input:
  kafka_migrator_bundle:
    kafka_migrator:
      seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9092" ]
      topics:
        - '^[^_]' # Skip internal topics which start with `_`
      regexp_topics: true
      consumer_group: migrator_bundle
      start_from_oldest: true

    schema_registry:
      url: http://localhost:8081
      include_deleted: true
      subject_filter: ""

output:
  kafka_migrator_bundle:
    kafka_migrator:
      seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9093" ]
      max_in_flight: 1

    schema_registry:
      url: http://localhost:8082

metrics:
  prometheus: {}
  mapping: |
    meta label = if this == "input_kafka_migrator_lag" { "source" }
----

Launch the Kafka Migrator Bundle pipeline, and leave it running:

[source,console]
----
$ redpanda-connect run kafka_migrator_bundle.yaml
----

== Check the status of migrated topics

> You can use the Redpanda https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk[`rpk` CLI tool^] to check which topics and ACLs have been migrated to the `destination` cluster. You can quickly xref:ROOT:get-started:rpk-install.adoc[install `rpk`] if you don't already have it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the Redpanda xref:ROOT:get-started:rpk/index.adoc[`rpk` CLI tool^] to check which topics and ACLs have been migrated to the `destination` cluster. You can quickly xref:ROOT:get-started:rpk-install.adoc[install `rpk`] if you don't already have it.
```

[source,console]
----
$ curl http://localhost:4195/metrics
...
# HELP input_kafka_migrator_lag Benthos Gauge metric
# TYPE input_kafka_migrator_lag gauge
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="0",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="__consumer_offsets"} 0
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="0",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="bar"} 0
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="0",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="foo"} 0
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="1",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="__consumer_offsets"} 0
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="1",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="bar"} 1
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="1",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="foo"} 0
...
----

== Read from the migrated topics

Stop the `read_data_source.yaml` consumer you started earlier and, afterwards, start a similar consumer for the `destination` cluster. Before starting the consumer up on the `destination` cluster, make sure you give the migrator bundle some time to replicate the translated offset.

> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> # read_data_destination.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.`read_data_destination.yaml`
[source,yaml]
----
```

= Kafka Migrator

// tag::single-source[]

Author: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mtodor[Mihai Todor^]

:description: With Kafka Migrator, you can move your workloads from any Kafka system to Redpanda using _just one command_. It lets you migrate Kafka messages, schemas, and ACLs quickly and efficiently.

Redpanda Connect's Kafka Migrator uses functionality from the following components:

- xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` input],
- xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` output],
- xref:components:inputs/kafka_franz.adoc[`kafka_franz` input],
- xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_offsets.adoc[`kafka_migrator_offsets` output],
- xref:components:inputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` input],
- xref:components:outputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` output].

For convenience, these components are bundled together into the:

- xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` input] and
- xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` output] templates.

This cookbook shows how to use the bundled components.

== Create the Docker containers

> First, we will need two clusters and, for simplicity, we can run two Redpanda Docker containers via https://docs.docker.com/compose[Docker Compose^]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create two clusters and, for simplicity, you can run two Redpanda Docker containers via https://docs.docker.com/compose[Docker Compose^]:
```

> First, we will need two clusters and, for simplicity, we can run two Redpanda Docker containers via https://docs.docker.com/compose[Docker Compose^]:

Reviewer: Do we need this first paragraph?

Author: Ugh, I missed that. Thank you!

> First, you’ll need two clusters. To keep it simple, you can run the https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/kafka[Bitnami Kafka^] and https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/schema-registry[Schema Registry^] Docker containers for the source cluster and a https://hub.docker.com/r/redpandadata/redpanda[Redpanda Docker container^] for the destination cluster via https://docs.docker.com/compose[Docker Compose^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/kafka[Bitnami Kafka^] and https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/schema-registry[Schema Registry^] Docker containers for the source cluster and a https://hub.docker.com/r/redpandadata/redpanda[Redpanda Docker container^] for the destination cluster via https://docs.docker.com/compose[Docker Compose^].
```

          kafka-acls.sh --bootstrap-server source:19092 --add --allow-principal User:redpanda --operation Read --topic foo &&
          kafka-acls.sh --bootstrap-server source:19092 --add --deny-principal User:redpanda --operation Read --topic bar
          echo 'Created ACLs:' &&
          kafka-acls.sh --bootstrap-server source:19092 --list"

  source_schema_registry:
    image: bitnami/schema-registry
    environment:
      SCHEMA_REGISTRY_KAFKA_BROKERS: PLAINTEXT://source:19092
    ports:
      - 8081:8081
    depends_on:
      source:
        condition: service_healthy

  destination:
    image: redpandadata/redpanda
    command:
      - redpanda
      - start
      - --node-id 0
      - --mode dev-container
      - --set rpk.additional_start_flags=[--reactor-backend=epoll]
      - --set redpanda.auto_create_topics_enabled=false
      - --kafka-addr 0.0.0.0:9093
      - --advertise-kafka-addr localhost:9093
      - --schema-registry-addr 0.0.0.0:8081
    ports:
      - 8082:8081
      - 9093:9093
      - 9645:9644
----

[source,console]
----
$ docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up --force-recreate -V
----

> Note: We used an `init` container above to create 2 topics, `foo` and `bar`, each with 2 partitions and an associated ACL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: We used an `init` container above to create 2 topics, `foo` and `bar`, each with 2 partitions and an associated ACL.
```

----

== Generate messages

Let's simulate an application with a producer and consumer actively publishing and reading messages on the `source` cluster. You can use Redpanda Connect to generate some Avro-encoded messages and push them to the two topics from the `source` cluster.

[source,yaml]
----
# generate_data.yaml

http:
  enabled: false

input:
  sequence:
    inputs:
      - generate:
          mapping: |
            let msg = counter()
            root.data = $msg

            meta kafka_topic = match $msg % 2 {
              0 => "foo"
              1 => "bar"
            }
          interval: 1s
          count: 0
          batch_size: 1

        processors:
          - schema_registry_encode:
              url: "http://localhost:8081"
              subject: ${! metadata("kafka_topic") }
              avro_raw_json: true

output:
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9092" ]
    topic: ${! @kafka_topic }
    partitioner: manual
    partition: ${! random_int(min:0, max:1) }
----

> Now run this command to start the pipeline, and leave it running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, run this command to start the pipeline, and leave it running:
```

[source,console]
----
$ redpanda-connect run generate_data.yaml
----

> Next, add a Redpanda Connect consumer, which reads messages from the `source` cluster topics and leave it running. This consumer uses the `foobar` consumer group, which will be reused in a later step when consuming from the `sink` cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, add a Redpanda Connect consumer, which reads messages from the `source` cluster topics, and leave it running. This consumer uses the `foobar` consumer group, which will be reused in a later step when consuming from the `sink` cluster.
```

[source,yaml]
----
# read_data_source.yaml

http:
  enabled: false

input:
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9092" ]
    topics:
      - '^[^_]' # Skip topics which start with `_`
    regexp_topics: true
    start_from_oldest: true
    consumer_group: foobar

  processors:
    - schema_registry_decode:
        url: "http://localhost:8081"
        avro_raw_json: true

output:
  stdout: {}
  processors:
    - mapping: |
        root = this.merge({"count": counter(), "topic": @kafka_topic, "partition": @kafka_partition})
----

Run launch the `source` consumer pipeline, and leave it running:

[source,console]
----
$ redpanda-connect run read_data_source.yaml
----

> At this point, the `source` cluster should have some data in both `foo` and `bar` topics and the consumer should be printing the messages it reads from these topics to `stdout`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, the `source` cluster should have some data in both `foo` and `bar` topics, and the consumer should be printing the messages it reads from these topics to `stdout`.
```

== Configure and start Kafka Migrator

> At this point, you can start the new Kafka Migrator Bundle, which will do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You ready to start the new Kafka Migrator Bundle, which will do the following:
```

- On startup, it reads all the schemas from the `source` cluster Schema Registry through the REST API and pushes them to the destination cluster Schema Registry using the same API. It needs to preserve the schema IDs, so the `destination` cluster *must not have any schemas in it*.
- Once the schemas have been imported, Kafka Migrator begins the migration of all the selected topics from the `source` cluster, and any associated ACLs. After it finishes creating all the topics and ACLs that don't exist in the `destination` cluster, it begins the migration of messages and performs consumer group offsets remapping.
- If any new topics are created in the `source` cluster while Kafka Migrator is running, they are only migrated to the `destination` cluster if messages are written to them.

ACL migration for topics adheres to the following principles:

- `ALLOW WRITE` ACLs for topics are not migrated
- `ALLOW ALL` ACLs for topics are downgraded to `ALLOW READ`
- Group ACLs are not migrated

> Note: Changing topic configurations, such as partition count, isn't currently supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Changing topic configurations, such as partition count, isn't currently supported.
```

Now, use the following Kafka Migrator Bundle configuration. Please refer to the xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[Kafka Migrator Bundle input] and xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[Kafka Migrator Bundle output] docs for details.

> Note: The `max_in_flight: 1` setting is required to preserve message ordering at the partition level. Please refer to xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator.adoc#max_in_flight[its documentation] for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The `max_in_flight: 1` setting is required to preserve message ordering at the partition level. Please refer to xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator.adoc#max_in_flight[its documentation] for details.
```

[source,yaml]
----
# kafka_migrator_bundle.yaml

input:
  kafka_migrator_bundle:
    kafka_migrator:
      seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9092" ]
      topics:
        - '^[^_]' # Skip internal topics which start with `_`
      regexp_topics: true
      consumer_group: migrator_bundle
      start_from_oldest: true

    schema_registry:
      url: http://localhost:8081
      include_deleted: true
      subject_filter: ""

output:
  kafka_migrator_bundle:
    kafka_migrator:
      seed_brokers: [ "localhost:9093" ]
      max_in_flight: 1

    schema_registry:
      url: http://localhost:8082

metrics:
  prometheus: {}
  mapping: |
    meta label = if this == "input_kafka_migrator_lag" { "source" }
----

> Now launch the Kafka Migrator Bundle pipeline, and leave it running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launch the Kafka Migrator Bundle pipeline, and leave it running:
```

[source,console]
----
$ redpanda-connect run kafka_migrator_bundle.yaml
----

== Check the status of migrated topics

> Now you can use the Redpanda https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk[`rpk` CLI tool^] to check which topics and ACLs have been migrated to the `destination` cluster. If you don't have it installed already, please follow the instructions https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk-install[here^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Redpanda https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk[`rpk` CLI tool^] to check which topics and ACLs have been migrated to the `destination` cluster. If you don't already have it installed, see the instructions https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk-install[here^].
```

> Note: For now, users need to be migrated manually. However, this step is not required for the current demo. Similarly, roles are specific to Redpanda and, for now, will also require manual migration if the `source` cluster is based on Redpanda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: For now, users need to be migrated manually. However, this step is not required for the current demo. Similarly, roles are specific to Redpanda and, for now, will also require manual migration if the `source` cluster is based on Redpanda.
```

[source,console]
----
$ rpk -X brokers=localhost:9093 -X admin.hosts=localhost:9645 topic list
NAME      PARTITIONS  REPLICAS
_schemas  1           1
bar       2           1
foo       2           1

$ rpk -X brokers=localhost:9093 -X admin.hosts=localhost:9645 security acl list
PRINCIPAL      HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME  RESOURCE-PATTERN-TYPE  OPERATION  PERMISSION  ERROR
User:redpanda  *     TOPIC          bar            LITERAL                READ       DENY
User:redpanda  *     TOPIC          foo            LITERAL                READ       ALLOW
----

== Check metrics to monitor progress

> Redpanda Connect provides a comprehensive suite of metrics in various formats, which you can use to monitor its performance in your observability stack. Besides the xref:components:metrics/about.adoc#metric-names[standard Redpanda Connect metrics], the `kafka_migrator` input also emits an `input_kafka_migrator_lag` metric for monitoring the migration progress of each topic and partition (for example in Prometheus format).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda Connect provides a comprehensive suite of metrics in various formats, which you can use to monitor its performance in your observability stack. Besides the xref:components:metrics/about.adoc#metric-names[standard Redpanda Connect metrics], the `kafka_migrator` input also emits an `input_kafka_migrator_lag` metric for monitoring the migration progress of each topic and partition. For example, in Prometheus format.
```

Author: I reworded this in a different way, hope that's OK.

[source,console]
----
$ curl http://localhost:4195/metrics
...
# HELP input_kafka_migrator_lag Benthos Gauge metric
# TYPE input_kafka_migrator_lag gauge
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="0",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="__consumer_offsets"} 0
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="0",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="bar"} 0
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="0",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="foo"} 0
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="1",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="__consumer_offsets"} 0
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="1",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="bar"} 1
input_kafka_migrator_lag{label="source",partition="1",path="root.input.sequence.broker.inputs.0",topic="foo"} 0
...
----

== Read from the migrated topics

> Finally, stop the `read_data_source.yaml` consumer you started previously and, afterwards, start a similar consumer for the `destination` cluster. Before starting the consumer up on the `destination` cluster, make sure you give the migrator bundle some time to replicate the translated offset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, stop the `read_data_source.yaml` consumer you started earlier and, afterwards, start a similar consumer for the `destination` cluster. Before starting the consumer up on the `destination` cluster, make sure you give the migrator bundle some time to replicate the translated offset.
```

= Kafka Migrator

// tag::single-source[]

:description: With Kafka Migrator, you can move your workloads from any Kafka system to Redpanda using a single command. It lets you migrate Kafka messages, schemas, and ACLs quickly and efficiently.

> 

Reviewer: Can we add an intro:

Move your workloads from any Kafka system to Redpanda using a single command. Kafka Migrator lets you migrate Kafka messages, schemas, and ACLs quickly and efficiently.

Redpanda Connect's Kafka Migrator uses functionality from the following components:

> - xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` input],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` input]
```

> - xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` output],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` output]
```

> - xref:components:inputs/kafka_franz.adoc[`kafka_franz` input],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- xref:components:inputs/kafka_franz.adoc[`kafka_franz` input]
```

> - xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_offsets.adoc[`kafka_migrator_offsets` output],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_offsets.adoc[`kafka_migrator_offsets` output]
```

> - xref:components:inputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` input],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- xref:components:inputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` input]
```

> - xref:components:outputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` output].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- xref:components:outputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` output]
```

For convenience, these components are bundled together into the:

> - xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` input] and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` input] template
```

> - xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` output] templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[`kafka_migrator_bundle` output] template
```

      - --mode dev-container
      - --set rpk.additional_start_flags=[--reactor-backend=epoll]
      - --set redpanda.auto_create_topics_enabled=false
      - --kafka-addr 0.0.0.0:9093
      - --advertise-kafka-addr localhost:9093
      - --schema-registry-addr 0.0.0.0:8081
    ports:
      - 8082:8081
      - 9093:9093
      - 9645:9644
----

[source,console]
----
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up --force-recreate -V
----

NOTE: This command uses an `init` container to create two topics, `foo` and `bar`, each with two partitions and an associated ACL.

endif::[]

ifdef::env-cloud[]

== Create a Kafka cluster and a Redpanda Cloud cluster

First, you'll need to provision two clusters, a Kafka one called `source` and a Redpanda Cloud one called `destination`. We'll use the following sample connection details throughout the rest of this cookbook:

`source`
----
broker:          source.cloud.kafka.com:9092
schema registry: https://schema-registry-source.cloud.kafka.com:30081
username:        kafka
password:        testpass
----

`destination`
----
broker:          destination.cloud.redpanda.com:9092
schema registry: https://schema-registry-destination.cloud.redpanda.com:30081

> username:        redpanda

Reviewer: So for placeholder text, we would normally do the following, so the text is highlighted and can be replaced.

username: <cluster-username>
password: <cluster-password>

There's quite a few places where you would need to do this.

Author: Agreed to not make this change since it's important to see which credentials go where.

password:        testpass

> ----

Author: Wasn't sure if this is the right way to format this section. Happy to change it if need be.

              0 => "foo"
              1 => "bar"
            }
          interval: 1s
          count: 0
          batch_size: 1

        processors:
          - schema_registry_encode:
              url: "https://schema-registry-source.cloud.kafka.com:30081"
              subject: ${! metadata("kafka_topic") }
              avro_raw_json: true
              basic_auth:
                enabled: true
                username: kafka
                password: testpass

output:
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: [ "source.cloud.kafka.com:9092" ]
    topic: ${! @kafka_topic }
    partitioner: manual
    partition: ${! random_int(min:0, max:1) }
    tls:
      enabled: true
    sasl:
      - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256
        username: kafka
        password: testpass
----

endif::[]

Now, run this command to start the pipeline, and leave it running:

[source,console]
----
redpanda-connect run generate_data.yaml
----

Next, add a Redpanda Connect consumer, which reads messages from the `source` cluster topics, and leave it running. This consumer uses the `foobar` consumer group, which will be reused in a later step when consuming from the `sink` cluster.

> 

Reviewer: You mention a `sink` cluster here but elsewhere a `destination`. Can you check?

Author: Nice catch! Copy / paste gone wrong :(

    regexp_topics: true
    start_from_oldest: true
    consumer_group: foobar

  processors:
    - schema_registry_decode:
        url: "http://localhost:8081"
        avro_raw_json: true

output:
  stdout: {}
  processors:
    - mapping: |
        root = this.merge({"count": counter(), "topic": @kafka_topic, "partition": @kafka_partition})
----

endif::[]

ifdef::env-cloud[]

[source,yaml]
----
http:
  enabled: false

input:
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: [ "source.cloud.kafka.com:9092" ]
    topics:
      - '^[^_]' # Skip topics which start with `_`
    regexp_topics: true
    start_from_oldest: true
    consumer_group: foobar
    tls:
      enabled: true
    sasl:
      - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256
        username: kafka
        password: testpass

  processors:
    - schema_registry_decode:
        url: "https://schema-registry-source.cloud.kafka.com:30081"
        avro_raw_json: true
        basic_auth:
          enabled: true
          username: kafka
          password: testpass

output:
  stdout: {}
  processors:
    - mapping: |
        root = this.merge({"count": counter(), "topic": @kafka_topic, "partition": @kafka_partition})
----

endif::[]

> Run launch the `source` consumer pipeline, and leave it running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launch the `source` consumer pipeline, and leave it running:
```

You're ready to start the new Kafka Migrator Bundle, which will do the following:

- On startup, it reads all the schemas from the `source` cluster Schema Registry through the REST API and pushes them to the destination cluster Schema Registry using the same API. It needs to preserve the schema IDs, so the `destination` cluster *must not have any schemas in it*.
- Once the schemas have been imported, Kafka Migrator begins the migration of all the selected topics from the `source` cluster, and any associated ACLs. After it finishes creating all the topics and ACLs that don't exist in the `destination` cluster, it begins the migration of messages and performs consumer group offsets remapping.
- If any new topics are created in the `source` cluster while Kafka Migrator is running, they are only migrated to the `destination` cluster if messages are written to them.

ACL migration for topics adheres to the following principles:

- `ALLOW WRITE` ACLs for topics are not migrated
- `ALLOW ALL` ACLs for topics are downgraded to `ALLOW READ`
- Group ACLs are not migrated

NOTE: Changing topic configurations, such as partition count, isn't currently supported.

> Now, use the following Kafka Migrator Bundle configuration. Please refer to the xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[Kafka Migrator Bundle input] and xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[Kafka Migrator Bundle output] docs for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, use the following Kafka Migrator Bundle configuration. See the xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[kafka_migrator_bundle input] and xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_bundle.adoc[kafka_migrator_bundle output] docs for full details.
```

      regexp_topics: true
      consumer_group: migrator_bundle
      start_from_oldest: true
      sasl:
        - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256
          username: kafka
          password: testpass

    schema_registry:
      url: "https://schema-registry-source.cloud.kafka.com:30081"
      include_deleted: true
      subject_filter: ""
      basic_auth:
        enabled: true
        username: kafka
        password: testpass

output:
  kafka_migrator_bundle:
    kafka_migrator:
      seed_brokers: [ "destination.cloud.redpanda.com:9092" ]
      max_in_flight: 1
      sasl:
        - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256
          username: redpanda
          password: testpass

    schema_registry:
      url: https://schema-registry-destination.cloud.redpanda.com:30081
      basic_auth:
        enabled: true
        username: redpanda
        password: testpass

metrics:
  prometheus: {}
  mapping: |
    meta label = if this == "input_kafka_migrator_lag" { "source" }
----

endif::[]

Launch the Kafka Migrator Bundle pipeline, and leave it running:

[source,console]
----
redpanda-connect run kafka_migrator_bundle.yaml
----

== Check the status of migrated topics

> You can use the Redpanda xref:ROOT:get-started:rpk/index.adoc[`rpk` CLI tool^] to check which topics and ACLs have been migrated to the `destination` cluster. You can quickly xref:ROOT:get-started:rpk-install.adoc[install `rpk`] if you don't already have it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Redpanda xref:ROOT:get-started:rpk/index.adoc[`rpk` CLI tool] to check which topics and ACLs have been migrated to the `destination` cluster. You can quickly xref:ROOT:get-started:rpk-install.adoc[install `rpk`] if you don't already have it.
```

= Kafka Migrator

:description: Move your workloads from any Kafka system to Redpanda using a single command. Kafka Migrator lets you migrate Kafka messages, schemas, and ACLs quickly and efficiently.

// tag::single-source[]

With Kafka Migrator, you can move your workloads from any Kafka system to Redpanda using a single command. It lets you migrate Kafka messages, schemas, and ACLs quickly and efficiently.

Redpanda Connect's Kafka Migrator uses functionality from the following components:

- xref:components:inputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` input]
- xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator.adoc[`kafka_migrator` output]
- xref:components:inputs/kafka_franz.adoc[`kafka_franz` input]
- xref:components:outputs/kafka_migrator_offsets.adoc[`kafka_migrator_offsets` output]
- xref:components:inputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` input]
- xref:components:outputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` output]

> For convenience, these components are bundled together into the following xref:configuration:pages/templating.adoc[Redpanda Connect templates]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For convenience, these components are bundled together into the following xref:configuration:templating.adoc[Redpanda Connect templates]:
```

      - --set redpanda.auto_create_topics_enabled=false
      - --kafka-addr 0.0.0.0:9093
      - --advertise-kafka-addr localhost:9093
      - --schema-registry-addr 0.0.0.0:8081
    ports:
      - 8082:8081
      - 9093:9093
      - 9645:9644
----

[source,console]
----
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up --force-recreate -V
----

NOTE: This command uses an `init` container to create two topics, `foo` and `bar`, each with two partitions and an associated ACL.

endif::[]

ifdef::env-cloud[]

== Create a Kafka cluster and a Redpanda Cloud cluster

First, you'll need to provision two clusters, a Kafka one called `source` and a Redpanda Cloud one called `destination`. We'll use the following sample connection details throughout the rest of this cookbook:

`source`

----
broker:          source.cloud.kafka.com:9092
schema registry: https://schema-registry-source.cloud.kafka.com:30081
username:        kafka
password:        testpass
----

`destination`

----
broker:          destination.cloud.redpanda.com:9092
schema registry: https://schema-registry-destination.cloud.redpanda.com:30081
username:        redpanda
password:        testpass

> ----

Author: Wasn't sure if this is the right way to format this section. Happy to change it if need be.
